# Chapter 2 -- Encoding Nonogram in CNF

When encoding, I made use of a Mersenne twister algorithm for generating random numbers to fill the boards randomly. The algorithm was written by Evan Sultanik, and it can be found [here](https://github.com/ESultanik/mtwister). Additionally, to avoid reading and writing to file repeatedly in the board generating process, a buffer structure was used and occasionally dumped to file. The buffer implementation was written by Alcover and can be found [here](https://github.com/alcover/buf) (*really* nicely written documentation).

The first encoding discussed in the thesis is from DNF to CNF. For a description and line length, all fillings for that description are enumerated as DNF terms, and then at least one of them must be satisfied so they are disjuncted. The file `dnfToCNF.c` encodes with this strategy. To compile this file, input `gcc -o outputName dnfToCNF.c mtwister.c` into your terminal. This will write an executable file with the name `outputName` in the directory in which `dnfToCNF.c` is stored, which you can run using the command `./outputName`. One element of the script that needs to be considered for changing is the size of the board to be encoded. This can be set by changing the global variable `N` that is set in line 8 of the file. Second, the path to the directory in which the CNF formulae will be stored (line 534) should be altered. I would leave the file name the same, only altering the portion of the path before the final backslash.

The second encoding uses regular expressions converted to automata to encode the boards. The file `regExEncoding.c` encodes with this strategy. To compile, input `gcc -o outputName regExEncoding.c mtwister.c buf.c` into your terminal. This produces an executable in the directory in which `regExEncoding.c` is stored that can be ran with the command `./outputName`. The lines that might need altering in the file are again the size of the board (set as variable `N` in line 10) and the path to the directory in which the CNF formulae should be stored (line 194).
